# CS562-Project
**Contents**  
[1. Info](#info)  
[2. Goal](#goal)  
[3. Results](#results)  
[4. What I Would Do Differently](#what-i-would-do-differently)  
[5. What I Learned](#what-i-learned)  
[6. Links](#links)
## Info
**Date:** Spring 2024  
**Class:** CS562 Advanced Realtime Rendering  
**Where:** DigiPen Institute of Technology  
  
This project is the final result of my work in CS562.
## Goal
Using DirectX12 implement Physically Based Rendering, Image Based Lighting, Momment Shadow Mapping, and Ambient Occlusion in a real time environment.
## Process
### Why I chose DirectX12
I chose DirectX12 because it is a modern graphics API that is used in many games. The class was taught in OpenGL and many people in the industry have told me that OpenGL is outdated and I wanted to learn something more current.  
## How I went about it
When I started on this project I decided to go about it in a much simpler way than I would normally. Rather than spending days or weeks attempting to over-engineer my code, I decided to start with an OpenGL framework my teacher had provided and retrofit it to use DirectX12. I tried not to spend too much time making complex systems or working on anything too superfluous and instead focused on writting graphics code that worked and building from there.  
### Debugging
Working on these projects I spent a lot of time in RenderDoc and PIX debugging. This is something that took some time to get right even after several years of having used these programs. I found that PIX works exceptionally well when looking into DirectX12 specific problems and was my primary tool for debugging. I used RenderDoc to fill in some of the gaps, such as verifying the data being sent from the CPU to the GPU. This is because in PIX it will automatically transpose matrices from row major order to column major order which can be confusing when you want to see the literal data.
## Results
**Project 1:** Deferred Rendering that supports many lights (~1k tested) for project 1.  
**Project 2:** Moment Shadow Mapping using Hamburger 4MSM algorithm.  
**Project 3:** Physically Based Rendering and Image Based Lighting.  
**Project 4:** Ambient Occlusion
## What I Would Do Differently
I would have spent some time to learn more about the math and physics behind the equations I was implementing. This proved especially problematic in project 2 when I struggled to properly implement Moment Shadow Mapping. After several days of struggle and frustration I eventually figured out that my problems came from the way I was storing my depth calculations. This could have been avoided if I had done more indepth research beforehand.
## What I Learned
I learned a great deal about many modern rendering techniques. I had only scratched the surface of shadows, and learning how to implement more realistic shadows was very fascinating. Ambient Occlusion proved especially difficult and it is something I definitely want to return to at some point in the near future.
## Links
[CS562-Project](https://github.com/sam-biks/CS562-Project?tab=readme-ov-file)  
[Portfolio](https://github.com/sam-biks/Portfolio)